---
layout: post
title: Using MathJax with Jekyll
subtitle:   "Using MathJax with Jekyll to render latex coded equations"
# header-img: "img/xxx.jpg"
date:   2019-12-13 00:10:00 +0800
tags:
    - Jekyll
    - MathJax
    - Cheatsheet
mathjax: true
---

## How to use

MathJax is a front-end render engine. To use it, you need to include it in your html page header. The following code shows how to include the source code and followed by some basic configurations.

```html
<!-- in your page, eg. XXX.html -->
<header>
	<script type="text/javascript"
			src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.5/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_SVG">
	</script>
	<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
	MathJax.Hub.Config({
		TeX: {
		equationNumbers: {
			autoNumber: "AMS"
		}
		},
		SVG: {
		scale: 90
		},
		tex2jax: {
		inlineMath: [ ['$','$'] ],
		displayMath: [ ['$$','$$'] ],
		processEscapes: true,
		}
	});
	</script>
</header>
```

## If the euqation is not displayed

If you are using this Jekyll template, you should add `mathjax: true` at the head section of your markdown file. Only add it for those posts that do need MathJax support.

If you are using other Jekyll templates and the equations are not rendering, you may want to check if there be any pre-defined variable that triggers the MathJax inclusion of the header template.

## Displaying braces with MathJax under Jekyll

```latex
$\{ 1,2,3,\dots \}$
```

We expect the above code gives us a pair of nice braces, but it actually renders like: $\{ 1,2,3,\dots \}$

Because backslash will be escaped by Jekyll building process, `\{` and `\}` will be translated to `{` and `}` when processed by MathJax. 

And bacause MathJax can only see the html DOM, which has already been `\` escaped by Jekyll, MathJax will treat them as a pair of meaningless delimiters, instead of rendering actual braces.

To override this problem, we need to escape the backslash itself, which looks like this:

```latex
$\\{ 1,2,3,\dots \\}$
```

And the result looks like: $\\{ 1,2,3,\dots \\}$

Note that if you are using a single-line equation, eg `$$\{A,B,...\}$$`, you do ***NOT*** need this trick.